so good afternoon and welcome to this
session first of all let's check rule in
the right room I think I'm in the right
room but this is a deep dive session
this is net 402 we're going to be
talking about direct connect and VPNs my
name is Steve see more I'm a specialist
solutions architect for networking i
work in Europe Middle Eastern Africa
with all of our customers that want to
have deep dive discussions on networking
as I say this is a 400 level session
which means it's an expert level session
we expect you to be deeply familiar with
this topic already and actually quite
comfortable with how it already works
this is not an introduction level
session so perhaps some existing
knowledge you might have perhaps earlier
in the week you might have gone to Becky
session at 201 where she talked about
some of the connectivity options that we
have and she mentioned direct connect
and VPN in that session you might also
have seen yesterday's session with Ben
and Sid they talked about how to extend
data centers into the cloud and again
they were explaining how you use VPN and
direct connect to achieve that you also
might have seen the session that I did
last year it was the same titled session
but it was net 406 last year and in that
session I actually go through step by
step how to configure everything to do
with these two services so I'm not going
to be repeating that this year but all
of that content can be found on youtube
so you can look at it after this event
if you need to go back and refresh some
of that knowledge now one of the cool
things that I do expect from this
session and hopefully all of you know
this is the difference between a VPN and
direct connect that's really important
knowledge but I also expect you to know
the difference between a Rooter and a
router
anyway let's get started with the rest
of the session so what are we actually
going to be covering well obviously
we're talking about VPN and direct
connect throughout the whole session but
I wanted to look at some of the options
and the configuration details around
those we're going to talk about
resilience how you can achieve a
resilient set up with both of these
services and talk about some of the
frequently asked questions that we get
as a solutions architecture team about
the two services and touch on billing a
little bit as well just to explain how
some of that works we're then going to
go a bit deeper on BGP and how does
rooting actually work talking about
autonomous system numbers how routing
works within the virtual private gateway
beyond that and then gonna dive into
some details around cloud hub and
transit VPC solutions how you can
connect direct connect and VPN to other
AWS services and then finally a full
example of how you can configure an
ipsec VPN over the top of direct connect
so that's the level of depth we're
talking about in this session okay so
let's start with the hardware VPN
solution that we have now the hardware
VPN solution is a fully managed VPN
solution provided by AWS it has an end
point on the AWS side which is the
virtual private gateway and it has an
end point on the customer side of the
connection that we refer to as the
customer gateway when you create a VPN
connection using this solution we
actually provision two tunnels and those
two tunnels give you your resilience
into the AWS environment each of those
tunnel endpoints terminates in a
different availability zone it's a
standard ipsec tunnel so there's nothing
unusual about this its sports standard
encryption options sports aes-256 she'll
too and also we do now support NAT
traversal as well so if the customer
gateway on your side of this connection
is actually already behind another
router that is doing some address
translation that's fine that'll work as
well the VPN connection is paid for on
an hourly basis for each VPN connection
that you have and that covers the two
tunnels associated with that particular
VPN connection and then finally there
are two options for configuring this VPN
it can either be a static VPN or it can
be dynamic or BGP based in terms of the
routing so let's just quickly refresh
ourselves on what those two terms mean
both static and dynamic so here's an
example of the static VPN in this
situation you actually have to configure
specifically
the IP addresses that you're going to be
on each end of the VPN tunnels might be
also known as a policy-based VPN so
you're going to define that on the right
hand side here you've got your corporate
infrastructure your data center and
perhaps it's 192 168 / 16 on the
left-hand side we have our VPC and are
two end points for the virtual private
gateway and the VPC in this case is 10 /
16 now you'll notice here that you can
only have one unique security
Association pair per tunnel so that's
fine in this setup that we're showing
here there is only one set of IP
addresses on each end of the connection
that we need to be able to route to so
that's two unique pairs 42 tunnels
that's for security associations but I'm
guessing there were a lot of your
networks don't simply have one such 16
as part of them so on the right hand
side of the diagram and in that case
what you actually need to do is
configure the policy based VPN to be
using 0 / 0 what that means is any
traffic can flow over this VPN
connection you then need to use network
acl's on your end of the connection on
your reuters to actually control and
manage that traffic because we need to
go back to the fact that we support
these four security associations across
the two tunnels now what about a dynamic
VPN dynamic VP again again has the two
end points on the AWS side but this time
instead of specifying which IP addresses
are reachable on each end of the
connection we use BGP routing protocol
to announce those routes between each
end between each location so in this
case we're going to have the two tunnels
there's an IP address associated with
each end of that tunnel and then a BG
pas number defining both the customer
end of the connection and the AWS end
the a s number that's used on the Amazon
side is fixed for each region but on the
customer side obviously you can use
whatever a s number you like we'd
recommend you use a private is number
and if you use a public is number you
should own it but this is a private
environment of VPN connection now if you
wanted to achieve a resilience set up
with either the static or the dynamic
VPNs you could obviously deploy to
customer gateways within your
environment within your data center on
the right you can then build to VPN
tunnels from each of those customer
gateways to each VPC that you want to
connect to so in this case I'm showing 2
V PCs and you can then expand this as
you needed to build
the VPN connections out to all of your V
pcs so let's take a look at a couple of
the frequently asked questions that I
get now quite a common one is how can i
change the pre-shared key on a VPN
connection now you might have seen this
if you have some experience with our VPN
solution already when you create the VPN
configuration we give you a file to
download which contains all the
configuration options it's also a
template for a lot of well-known Rooter
manufacturers you can just generally
apply the pre-shared key is within that
file so if you want to change that
pre-shared key what you actually have to
do is create a new VPN connection that
will generate a new pre-shared key and
you can then reconfigure it on your end
of the connection but when you do that
you also need to be aware that when you
recreate that VPN we are likely to also
change the end points on the AWS side of
that connection so the IP addresses
you're establishing your tunnels to will
probably have changed in that scenario
so in that case make sure you do we can
figure all of those options on your
route oh now we support the whole range
of crypto options on the VPN solution
that we have here so what if you want to
change those after you've already
deployed the VPN well this is really
easy you simply change it on your end
because the way an ipsec VPN works is
there is a negotiation at the beginning
of the VPN connection where you make
proposals to each other of which
encryption options do I want to use and
if you only propose a higher level of
encryption that's fine that's what will
accept an will establish that VPN
connection now what if you built your
VPC you've done some testing in it and
now you want to build another VPC
perhaps for production and move your VPN
to that production VPC you want to reuse
that existing VPN connection this is
actually really quite easy because the
VPN connection is associated with the
Virtual Private gateway it's not
associated with your VPC so what that
means is you can now detach that virtual
private gateway and then reattach it to
the other VPC so very easy to move that
virtual private gateway so how does
billing work on VPN connections well as
I mentioned earlier you pay for the
connection hours of your VPN connection
so once that VPN is configured you're
then going to receive an hourly charge
for it the other dimension that we have
is that you pay for data transfer over
that VPN connection now here's a little
bit more detail that I didn't have in my
session last year
I want to just give you that that kind
of slightly deeper view the first item I
have here is where is the customer
gateway well if it's over the internet
somewhere if it's in your data center
then you're transferring this data over
the Internet so the data transfer charge
is our standard internet out data
transfer charge and obviously we don't
charge anything for the data flowing
into AWS but what if you're using your
customer gateway via a direct connect
circuit which is the example I'm going
to be talking about later on how do we
charge the data transfer in that
situation well it's charged at the rate
for direct connect it's not charged at
the normal internet data transfer rate
there's also a scenario where you might
have deployed your customer gateway a
choose a virtual machine in another VPC
and if that VPC is in the same region
and you're reaching it via its elastic
IP address then actually going to pay
the data transfer charge for regional
data transfer it makes sense the IP
address is within the region so we're
not going to charge you for internet
data transfer out we charge you for
regional data transfer and then finally
again you could have deployed your
customer gateway as a software solution
in a VPC and another AWS region and
again in that case the building will be
based on data transfer to a remote AWS
region so it's a couple of other
dimensions there to the building so now
it's also just touch on what is direct
connect well direct connect is a
dedicated private connection into AWS
you can create private or public virtual
interfaces that give you access to
either your v pc or other AWS services
that have public IP addresses it enables
you to benefit from reduced data
transfer rates data transfer in still
remains free obviously but age transfer
out is at a lesser rate than internet
data transfer it gives you this
consistent network performance you can
obviously configure the environment for
redundant connections although you might
only provision one direct connect
connection or multiple you can actually
share these across all of your AWS
accounts and it's a very common setup we
now see with customers where they have
multiple accounts so you can actually
share these direct connect connections
between them all and then finally Direct
Connect uses BGP for exchanging routing
information so there is no static option
on Direct Connect so a bit of
terminology about the connections these
are probably terms you're fairly
familiar with you know dark
fiber Ethernet private line pseudowire
these kind of things basically these are
all layer one layer to type services
effectively an Ethernet connection so
when you connect into an AWS direct
connect Rooter at one of our locations
it's probably going to be using one of
these mechanisms if you happen to be in
one of our direct connect locations and
you have your equipment in a rack of one
of those this might be as simple as
ordering a cross connect so you order
that from the data center provider the
cross-connect might go under the floor
straight into the AWS Reuters we use
single mode fiber connections either
thousand base LX for long gig
connections or 10g base lr4 10 geek
connections and they're the two port
speed options that we have one gig or 10
gig and that's a dedicated port for you
if you're not though within those direct
connect locations within those Colo
facilities you might be using a direct
connect partner to get this connection
to you but there will always be a Rooter
on the other end of that connection that
needs to talk bgp over a VLAN so i said
there that this is a dedicated
connection a one gig or a 10 gig port
well what if you actually want a lesser
amount of bandwidth so I just wanted to
clarify here the terms that we use so a
one gig or a 10 gig port is fairly clear
it's a port on the router that now is
assigned to you and you connect into it
you get the full port speed available
for your use and you can configure as
many virtual interfaces public or
private on that connection that you need
with a hosted connection though this is
provided by some of our partners it
enables you to get sub 1 gig connections
so 50 meg through to 500 megabits per
second it's actually provided on an
existing connection we have with that
partner we pull that interconnect and
when they create a connection for you it
becomes a hosted connection that hosted
connection defines a bandwidth the 50
meg through to 500 meg and a VLAN
because it's already defined the VLAN
when you create a virtual interface on
that hosted connection you can only
create a single one of them I'm going to
look at that in a bit more detail in a
moment now I mentioned the term virtual
interface a couple of times and public
and private virtual interface now
virtual interface is quite often known
by the term diff I realize that's used
in the industry generally for quite a
few things but this is a public and a
private vith we're talking about here
a private wif connects you to your
virtual private cloud your VPC board it
doesn't give you access to in your v pc
is the DNS resolver that we provide it's
referred to as the the plus 2 dns
resolver it's on the base IP address of
your v pc plus 2 you can't reach that
over a private fifth equally you might
have a VPC endpoint for s3 on your v pc
you can't reach that over a private
virtual interface either but otherwise
ec2 instances that are deployed within
your v pc you can reach those over a
private virtual interface so what about
a public virtual interface well again
the clues in the name it gives you
access to public AWS services these are
services that are exposed on the
internet and that you can reach normally
over an internet connection but in the
case that you want to use direct connect
to reach those you create a public
virtual interface it gives you access to
any of our public IP addresses in The
Associated AWS region and it also gives
you access to anything else that is
running on AWS IP addresses within that
region the other thing that's included
within those public IP addresses are the
VPN end points for the managed VPN that
I mentioned a moment ago and at the end
of this session that's the example i'm
going to show you of how to configure an
ipsec VPN over a public virtual
interface so a little bit more about
virtual interfaces what would you
actually need to configure is very
simple you've got three choices first of
all is it public or private I need to
choose a VLAN for this particular
virtual interface and when I've done
that I need to configure some bgp
options so these are the three core
components of a virtual interface now
let's take a look at how we pull these
together so we have your account here
and within it you've created a one gig
or a 10 gig direct connect connection on
that connection you're then going to go
and create a virtual interface and when
you do that it will be assigned an
identifier DX 5th DX is the abbreviation
we use for direct connect and you would
have chosen a VLAN for this particular
virtual interface you can create
multiples of those so if you have
another VPC that you want to reach over
this direct connect you simply create a
second virtual interface and a third and
as many more as you need on that regular
connection that one gig or that 10 gig
port initially you can also share these
across accounts so how does that work
well if you've got multiple AWS accounts
you go into the account that has the
connection you create a virtual
interface as normal but there's an
option to enter another AWS account
number when you do that you finish
configuring the VLAN and the BGP options
put in the account number and when you
submit that it will appear in the other
AWS account ready to be accepted and at
this point it becomes what we call a
hosted virtual interface because it is
hosted on the connection in another
account and you can repeat this so you
can create as many of those as you need
as well on a regular connection what
about the situation where we have a
partner providing the sub 1 gig options
250 through 500 Meg options well I
mentioned earlier that the partner will
already have an interconnect with us so
that's already in place you don't need
to order any physical components on the
AWS side you still might need a
connection from that partner to your
infrastructure but you don't have to
create the connection in the AWS console
where you actually do instead is give
your AWS account number to the direct
connect partner they will then provision
a hosted connection for you on their
interconnect and it will appear in your
account to accept it will show up with a
particular VLAN already assigned to it
and a defined bandwidth but you still
need to then create the virtual
interface on that hosted connection the
only difference here will be that the
VLAN has already been set and you'll see
that it's exactly the same screen that
you've already been looking at to create
a virtual interface on a regular
connection but the VLAN field would just
be grayed out because it's already been
chosen by the direct connect partner but
I said that a virtual interface requires
a choice of public and private a VLAN
and a BGP session well one of those
decision has already been made for you
so if you want another virtual interface
whether you're going to use it in the
same account or another one you actually
need to go back to the partner and ask
them to provide you with another hosted
connection so in this case I'm showing
as VLAN 10 2 and at that stage you can
then create another virtual interface on
that hosted connection so how do we deal
with resilience with direct connect so
I'm showing here to direct connect
locations now we have multiple locations
for most of the AWS regions and this
means that you can deploy very resilient
connectivity solutions to the
right of this diagram facing your
network in each of those direct connect
locations we have at least two direct
connect Reuters so even within a single
facility you can have redundant
connectivity these two direct connect
locations though need to be connected
back to an AWS region so here we have an
example of an AWS region with multiple
availability zones and the two transit
centers associated with that each direct
connect location then has diverse and
resilient connectivity back to that
region so you can now build a very
resilient very highly available solution
using direct connect so a couple of FA
cues on direct connect what if you want
to move that connection that you're
ordered in one account to another
account well the first thing is don't
delete it because if you do what's going
to happen is you'll have to start the
process of ordering that connection
again and we're going to then send you a
new Loa letter of authorization
connecting facility agreement that
defines where that port actually is and
it will be a different port to the one
you had previously so now you're going
to have to move your cross connect etc
so don't delete the port if you want to
do this all you need to do is raise a
support case we will happily move that
assuming you're on both accounts
obviously and we'll move that between
the accounts or rename it based on your
request so simply don't delete it you've
created a virtual interface it's
attached to a virtual private gateway
that's how we connect into our VP see
what if we actually want to move it to
another virtual private gateway well in
this case what you need to do is
actually note down the settings that you
use so the BGP options the VLAN etc you
can then delete and recreate that
virtual interface using the same
settings if you need to delete a virtual
private gateway you will need to remove
all of the virtual interfaces first if
you're doing a public virtual interface
you need to reach the public side of the
AWS network you're going to need to be
using public IP addresses on that
connection what if you don't have any
that you are willing to use on this
particular connection what if you don't
own your own IP addresses they just come
from your isp that's no problem at all
we are happy to provide you with a / 31
of public IP addresses to use on a
public virtual interface all you need to
do is raise a support case and ask us to
provide that to you and then finally
what if you want to change the bandwidth
from one of those hosted connect
the 50 through 500 Meg connections via
direct connect partners what what you
need to do there is go back to the
partner and actually ask them to create
you a new hosted connection at the new
bandwidth they can do this in parallel
to your existing one it's on another
VLAN you can configure another virtual
interface and attach it to your VPC and
then you can simply remove the old one
there is no need for downtime in this
situation you can simply create a new
one then D provision the old one how
does billing work on Direct Connect well
quite similarly to the to the VPN side
of things we charge for the hours that
you have a direct connect connection and
it's charged from the moment that it
comes up for the first time so obviously
there is quite often a period of time
from when you order the connection from
AWS so the point of time at which your
carrier your partner can actually
deliver it to your facilities so in that
window we don't charge for that
connection when it comes up for the
first time that's when we start the
billing process over direct connect you
have reduced data transfer rate so you
pay for data transfer and it's worth
remembering as I said earlier that if
you're running an ipsec VPN over that
direct connect public virtual interface
you pay for the data transfer at the
direct connect rates now if you have a
private virtual interface billing for
this is very simple all the data
transfer that goes out via your virtual
private gateway over direct connect is
charged for at the direct connect rates
what about a public virtual interface
because a public virtual interface is
giving you access to all of the things
on public IP addresses all of the
services that we have other services
that other customers are publishing on
AWS you can access all of those over
public virtual interfaces so how is that
build well first of all let's keep it
really simple if you're accessing a
resource that you own let's say an s3
bucket then it's quite simple you pay
for that data transfer and it's charged
for at the direct connect rates what
about accessing a resource that is owned
by another account but it's part of your
consolidated billing family so many of
you might have multiple AWS accounts
that will come into one consolidated
bill if you're accessing an s3 bucket
that is owned by another AWS account but
within that same consolidated billing
family again you'll pay for that and
you'll pay for other deck direct connect
rates what about if you're accessing
something that I own something that
another customer on AWS is providing
from the platform
and in that case you don't pay for that
data transfer they pay for that data
transfer so some of you might have seen
the announcement earlier today we
announced that we now support ipv6 in
VPC we launched in the Ohio region this
morning and therefore we also support
now ipv6 on Direct Connect so I wanted
to give you a bit of an insight into how
that's actually going to be working so
when you create an ipv6 based peering
session on a virtual interface we're
going to be supplying you with a slash
125 side a block for that particular
connection you won't be defining your
own ipv6 addresses for the connection if
you haven't seen it also within VPC
again will be assigning you address
space from Amazon's ipv6 allocation we
will accept / 64 or shorter prefixes
from you over the BGP session and the
way this works is it's actually an
additional peering session on top of
your existing virtual interface so
you'll have an ipv4 peering session and
ipv6 peering session and it is supported
on both public and private virtual
interfaces so this is what it looks like
on the screen here I'm showing you an
existing virtual interface it's down at
this point I'm finished configuring a
double but what we going to do at the
top here is click on the Actions menu
and you'll see there is now an option to
add appearing to this virtual interface
until this point it's only an ipv4
connection which is now up and running
but i want to add ipv6 to it so we add
appearing we choose ipv6 now you can
only have a pair of peering connections
on this virtual interface one ipv4 one
ipv6 so in this case because ipv4
already exists this is going to be an
additional ipv6 interface also generate
IPS as i mentioned we're going to
provide the IP addresses for the peering
session itself you simply specify the AS
number and if you want to specify one
the BGP key that you're going to use for
this session and then click go you'll
then see an additional tab appears on
that virtual interface showing you both
the ipv4 and the ipv6 sessions
you can of course go back and if you
started with an ipv6 peering session add
an ipv4 session to it so it works both
ways you could start with either peering
and add the second peering afterwards so
I mentioned BGP a few times so a quick
refresher on that because we're going to
have to dive in some of the detail of
this next so BGP is a TCP based protocol
for exchanging routing information more
specific prefixes or roots have always
preferred we use autonomous system
numbers to identify the networks on each
end of a BGP session and that session is
established between two BGP neighbors
ibgp is the term that's used for bgp
peers within the same is number ebgp is
the term used for peers within different
asses and whenever you're doing BGP with
AWS you're going to be using ebgp so
there's going to be two different a/s
numbers on the ends of the VPN
connection or the direct connect is path
is a really important concept it's a
measure of network distance so it's not
the same as a traceroute with the amount
of hops in it but it represents the
whole network that you're passing
traffic through and on the a s path it
will not be identified by a number of
the particular networks that your
traffic is passing through you can
always configure a local preference to
push traffic down a particular
connection if needed so a bit more on a
s numbers autonomous system numbers if
you look up amazon in one of the
Internet routing registries you're
probably going to see the RAS number is
160 509 it's a few others out there as
well but that's our main a s number but
when you create a public virtual
interface and you download that
configuration remembering it gives you
access to all of Amazon's public ip's in
that region you're actually going to see
that the a s number is probably 7224
it's not 165 09 what about when you
create a private virtual interface
what's the a s number we use on the
Amazon end of a private virtual
interface all our dynamic VPN and the
point here is that it can vary so please
don't make any assumptions about what
the a s number is going to be as an
example here's some of our region's just
specifying what the a s numbers are so
always download the configuration you
can do this in a couple of ways so if
you create a virtual interface there's
always a link to down
the configuration within that will be
the a s number that we're using for that
particular connection in that region the
same for a VPN connection and obviously
you can also do this via the command
line tools so always check what the a s
number is on the Amazon end of your VPN
or direct connect connection now that
public virtual interface that gives us
access to all of Amazon's public IPS in
that particular region it requires
public IP addresses for the BGP peering
session as I mentioned you can open a
case with a double your support if you
need a / 31 to use for that but if you
have your own IP addresses you can
announce those to us when you create the
virtual interface you specify those IP
addresses we then whitelist them to
accept them into our network once we
verified that you own them and then you
can use those if you're going to use an
AS number that is public you have to own
that a s number on a public virtual
interface if you don't that's absolutely
fine you can use private a s numbers but
if you specify a public one again we're
going to verify that you actually own
that before we enable that virtual
interface and that's why there's a
window of time up to about 72 hours
possibly to validate the ownership of
those IP addresses and that a s number
public virtual interfaces in the u.s.
also enable you to reach all of the AWS
regions within the US this is us
specific feature but it means that
you're going to receive BGP
announcements for all of Amazon's IPS in
all of the AWS regions in the u.s. now
going back to the a s path comment I
made earlier this is an example of the
output for a particular prefix on a root
of that is connected over a BGP session
via a public virtual interface you can
see on here that there's an AS path 722
for is the AAS paas number i mentioned
that we use for direct connect you can
see it twice in the path there you also
see that we then have 165 09 which is
the amazon is number i also mentioned
earlier and represents where this
particular prefix originates within our
network what you've got here is an AS
path length of three so we have 7 2 24
in there twice deliberately one step
further than that we actually have
what's called a community attached to
this particular BGP announcement it's
called a no export community
and the reason we've done that is it
helps prevent any unintended propagation
of these roots beyond your a s bandry so
beyond your network you can of course
over I things like no export if you
happen to use multiple is numbers
internally but this is a measure to help
prevent these roots being leaked beyond
your network and limit the impact if
that were to happen as I mentioned you
can have an inter-regional interface
this is enabled by default which means
you're going to receive all of these
prefixes for all of those regions in the
US but if you don't actually want to use
them what we do here is we actually
tagged our announcements with particular
BGP communities to help you decide what
you want to do with them so you can see
here that if it comes from the local AWS
region you connected this virtual
interface to it's going to be tagged
with the 8100 community if however it
comes from somewhere else on the
continents are somewhere else within the
US then it will be tagged with the
80-200 prefix equally you can announce
prefixes back to us and tag them with a
particular community to limit how far we
distribute those within our network so
if you only want your public IP
addresses to be routed from within that
local region that's fine you just add
the 9100 community to those
announcements so here's an example of
those communities attached to this
particular announcement you can see
we've got seven two to four eighty 180
200 well obviously a region is within
the continent so that's why you've got
both communities attached to this
particular announcement so a few more
considerations around the a s path that
we should think about when we're doing
multi region deployments on AWS so
here's the scenario that we're going to
be working with we have 3 V pcs in three
different regions one in u.s. East one
in North Virginia one in u.s. west to
and Oregon and one in EU west one which
is in Ireland you can see just under the
VPC there I've put the a s numbers that
we use for the private virtual interface
in those particular regions and you
might notice that the EU s one island
region uses a different is number used
is 90 59 all of these are connected to a
corporate backbone might be your own
backbone it might be managed and
provided to you by a partner but I'm
representing that here by a particular a
s number sixty five thousand
so let's take the scenario where we want
to be able to send traffic across this
corporate backbone for whatever reason
that you have between us East one and us
west to both of them used the same is
number seven two to four and in the BGP
environment what that actually means is
when you announce that route from us
east on the left across your corporate
network where we add then the 65,000 a s
number to the a s path when it gets to
us west too we're actually going to
reject it and that's because to us it
appears to come from the same a s number
and it could cause a routing loop so on
outside we're going to reject that
announcement from your Rooter but
actually you wanted this to happen you
want it to be able to communicate
between those two V pcs so how can we
fix that will use an example here for a
cisco router you can apply something
called a s override on your route of
facing that region what that means is if
i see the a s number in the a s path for
the network that i'm about to announce
the network to i'm going to override
that i'm going to replace it with my a s
number so you can see here in green the
65,000 that's the backbone is number at
which point we will happily accept that
announcement into the u.s. west region
now obviously if you do the same for the
reverse path this time from us west to
back to us East one the same is going to
apply so let's put a s override in place
to deal with that now you may not have
to configure this on your own equipment
but it might be something that your
partner your carrier may have to do
let's take another scenario using that
same environment this time we've got EU
west one in Ireland wanting to be able
to send traffic to us west to well in
this case EU west one is using a
different a s number 90 59 so if we look
at this path here in the middle we can
see 65,000 90 59 everything's good we
announce that to us west to which is
7224 it's accepted no problem there's no
routing loop as far as bgp is concerned
let's do it the other way round us west
to announces from 7224 via the backbone
65,000 into EU west one nao EU s 1 is 9
at 59 so everything should be good but
if you actually set this up you'll find
that it is rejected why is that
well it's because internally we actually
use 7224 for quite a few of the internal
environments for direct connect so what
do we do in this particular situation
well you could try and apply is over I'd
like we did before you can see here in
the example actually won't do anything
because the peering session is with 90
59 that's not the same as 72 to force OS
override does not apply so it's still
rejected now there's a few variations of
how you can deal with this situation
this is BGP engineering that you can do
one example I wanted to use here with
you can actually change the way you're
announcing routes into the EU west one
region you can actually configure your
route to the last hop before the VPC to
originate a default route so this time
this route this 0 / 0 route is going to
originate from your 65,000 network and
of course we're going to accept that
because there is no routing loop there's
no 7224 there's no 90 59 this probably
isn't quite what you wanted to achieve
you didn't want a default route you just
wanted to route to the other v pcs
across the globe so now let's look a
little bit more about how the virtual
gateway works with this so here's our VP
see we've got our BGP session with our
default route being originated on the
right-hand side so now the Virtual
Private gateway has a default route
inside but your VPC probably also has an
Internet gateway which also routes out
to the internet it's probably what you
intended to use as your default route
well the good news here is that those
two options are actually separate from
the route tables inside your VPC when
you create a route table it has a local
route in it which says this is how I get
to all the IP addresses within my VPC
you've then probably created a default
route that says send all traffic to the
internet via my internet gateway what
you can actually do here is put a
specific route in that route table
inside your VPC just for the 10 / 8
network and in this case you can say if
I have traffic for 10 / 8 send it to the
virtual private gateway so what you're
seeing here is two steps in the routing
process there's a decision that's made
inside the route table that you
configured and then once that traffic
gets to your virtual private gateway
it's going to follow that default route
anyway down the direct connect on to the
corporate backbone so you have actually
achieved you
goal of being able to route to the rest
of your 10 network / direct connect even
though you might have some overlapping
AAS number configuration issues so while
we're talking about routing within our
VPC we might have multiple routes to get
to a particular destination inside that
route table they could have come from
various places you could have created
them manually they could have been
propagated dynamically from direct
connect to VPN so how do we make a
decision about where to send that
traffic well the first thing to say is
that local routes within the VPC always
come first you cannot create a more
specific route in a route table in a VPC
than the VPC cider itself assuming that
the choice now has to be made between
two routes that are outside of that VPC
the first thing we're going to do is
look for the longest prefix match first
so a / 24 is more specific than a / 16
route assuming that hasn't broken the
tie we're then going to have a look and
say any route that appeared as a static
entry one that you created inside that
route table that will win okay but
perhaps that didn't split the match we
have here so now we're into the dynamic
routes if we have a dynamic route via
direct connect and via VPN the first
thing we're going to do is choose direct
connect it's unlikely that you intended
to use a VPN connection if you had a
direct connect in place so direct
connect wins first if we still need to
break a tie here we're going to look at
the shortest is path and finally at this
stage we say okay we have to book two
paths to a remote network we're going to
do ecmp equal cost multipathing and use
both of those connections assuming it
wasn't a direct connect decision we
needed to make static VPN connections
now come before dynamic VPN connections
so this is the routing preference that
we have with inside the VPC so now let's
talk about something called VPN cloud
hub you might have seen this in the
documentation VPN cloud hub is a way
that you can connect multiple remote
networks these could be your data
centers your corporate offices all into
the same virtual private gateway
assuming you configure them with
different a/s numbers here you'll need
the exchanging routes via the virtual
private gateway it acts as a hub hence
the name cloud hub it also of course
gives you accessing to the VPC as you'd
expect you can use different a/s numbers
but you also
have the oxygen to use the same AS
number if you wanted to although you
might need to do some custom
configuration on your reuters to make
that work i also wanted to show an
example here where instead of connecting
multiple offices or multiple data
centers together you could of course
deploy another VPC perhaps in a
different region so up on the top right
i'm showing EU central one this is
another region I've deployed to software
VPN instances in that region are
deployed to obviously for high
availability so these are now my
customer gateways they connect to the
virtual private gateway on the left and
now we're able to route between your
data centers and two different pcs in
two different locations that works
really well you can expand that of
course and now put another to software
VPN instances in another VPC build a
whole set of VPN to that virtual private
gateway and now all three of these V pcs
wherever they're located will be able to
route to each other let's add a
corporate data center back into the mix
here let's add a private virtual
interface connected to that same virtual
private gateway and now all of these
environments can all route to each other
so you can come over one direct connect
into one particular region then over
these VPN connections out to the others
isn't this starting to sound like a
transit VPC you've created an
environment where you can route to
multiple locations over this one
connection but there's a problem with
this design whilst technically it works
we've had to deploy to software VPN
instances in every single VPC that we
want to add into this environment those
two software VPNs might be running
commercial software you're having to pay
license fees for and you don't need to
deal with the resilience of them within
that VP see what happens when one of
them fails that's what we should always
be planning for so we now need to have
some automation that fails over our
routing all of this is completely doable
and we actually have examples of this
published but actually there's an easier
way we published a transit VPC solution
recently what this does is it moves
those two software VPN instances into a
hub environment so we actually create a
VPC here we're not using anything else
within it just to hold these to VPN
instances these to VPN instances act as
the customer gateway and they connect
out to the virtual private gateway
the other VP sees as you need because
it's going to a virtual private gateway
on the other end you haven't even got to
think about the resilience within those
VP sees a and B at the top because you
have one target in your route table the
virtual private gateway you don't have
to script any failover you just say
semi-tractor the virtual private gateway
and we take care of it for you in the
hub we have the to VPN instances so
that's highly available in resilient if
one of those fails all of the traffic
will just keep flowing over the other
one whilst it gets replaced by whatever
automation you want to implement now
we've actually published a
CloudFormation template and automation
around this for you it allows you to do
things as simple as tagging a virtual
private gateway with a spoke tag we then
use lambda to automatically notice that
build a VPN configuration and configure
these two software VPN instances in the
middle for you so you can go and
download that from our website give it a
try customize it as much as you need and
that's great for connecting V pcs
together in multiple regions if needed
but also you probably want to connect it
back to your data center so at the
bottom here if you were using a VPN
connection you could bring those
straight into those two ec2 instances in
the middle but if you're using direct
connect how does that work well you can
actually create a virtual private
gateway doesn't hatch just have to even
be attached to a VPC you can bring your
virtual interface for direct connect
into that and then tag it again with the
spoke VPN tag that will then add it into
this transit VPC and now you'll be able
to route between direct connects and all
of those other v pcs at the top of the
diagram so as I say there is a full
solution brief documented about this it
shows you how to configure all of the
components how to automatically deploy
it and I'd encourage you to take a look
at that and customize it for your own
needs so how do we use VPN and direct
connect with some other AWS services
let's touch on public virtual interfaces
first it connects you to those public
services we talked about anything within
that local associated region and things
like Amazon s3 Amazon glacier DynamoDB
these are the kinds of services that
you're going to connect to over a public
virtual interface what about these
services these might be ones that you're
considering actually all these private
well know all of these actually have a
public component to them were
spaces you connect to the endpoints for
work spaces over the internet so they
have public IP addresses elastic load
balancing yes you can have internal
elastic load balancers but you also
generally deploy them with public IP
addresses facing the Internet so these
are all reachable over a public virtual
interface now what about a private
virtual interface it goes to your VPC so
I think we can keep those same services
on the screen because workspaces has a
component that does exist inside your
PPC as well so it's relevant for that
lambda again you can create lambda
functions and run them inside your VPC
so that's relevant and of course ec2 ec2
instances are running inside your VP see
other services though that you might not
expect to see there you've got things
like RDS redshift cloud HSN these all
reachable over private virtual
interfaces so let's take an actual
example here let's work with Storage
Gateway for those of you not familiar
with Storage Gateway it's a virtual
appliance that you deploy in your
virtualized environment on-premises you
can then use your legacy servers and
backup software that supports virtual
tape libraries to connect to the storage
gateway over I scalzi well stories
gateway then does is it can either act
in a cache mode or a gateway mode but it
will then take your data and push it
into a service on the AWS side via some
public endpoints so these exist for a
particular region they have public IP
addresses this normally works over the
internet so I think you can see quite
clearly here if we put a direct connect
in place you could replace that
connection over the Internet potentially
high bandwidth usage that's going over
your current internet connection you
could replace that with a direct connect
the other scenario is amazon workspaces
so again this might be an architecture
that you've seen before it's quite a
standard setup of workspaces on the left
hand side we have your data center we
have various servers deployed within
that environment perhaps some directory
servers multi-factor authentication
servers you also have your users within
that environment who want to connect to
their workspaces and when they connect
to the endpoints for work spaces they go
over the internet they're exposed to the
public Internet so you can log in from
anywhere there's usually already a VPN
connection within a solution like this
because our directory service wants to
integrate with your directory so that
VPN can
is in place and as we know a private
virtual interface can be used wherever
we're using a VPN connection so that's
one place in this solution that we can
use direct connect but there is one more
those connections from those users when
they're in the corporate office within
the corporate environment if they want
to reach these public endpoints if we
put a public virtual interface in place
they can actually connect over those we
aren't limiting their ability to connect
you can still connect from home or from
a coffee shop wherever you need to tease
workspaces but if you're in the office
you can benefit from that direct connect
connection if you deploy a public
virtual interface okay so I sometimes
hear the requesting customers that they
want to use direct connect but it's not
encrypted how can i encrypted connection
over direct connect well this is one of
the options for doing that there are
many ways of doing it and I showed this
example last year it's a very high level
diagram it's saying that on the right
hand side we have your corporate network
we have a Rueter there we create a
public virtual interface which is the
blue line on the diagram here the
configuration at the top everything
we've talked about so far because the IP
addresses for our VPN endpoints are
presented within that public address
space you can now build a VPN connection
on top of that that's the 2 dashed green
lines on the diagram here the
configuration for those two IPSec
tunnels is shown at the bottom of the
screen and this is what you'd need to
configure but how do you actually do
this so what I'm going to show you is
one particular example it's configured
on a cisco router you can do this on
various vendors hardware and it uses
something called virtual routing and
forwarding vrf so vrf allows you to
create a separate environment within
that router it's sometimes called a
routing instance on other vendors
environments the vendors hardware you
can create a separate routing table
within that Rueter it means that the
main route table can be associated with
an internal private network and you can
contain a set of other routes completely
separately to that route table so what
we have here I've created a vrf virtual
routing and forwarding environment for a
public virtual interface I'm then going
to build that public virtual interface
between AWS and that vrf now when you
create a public virtual interface you
download a configuration it looks
something like this but
done here is added in the extra lines to
now use a vrf on this particular router
so these examples can actually be used
and applied if you want to there's a few
other elements you might choose to add
to integrate better with your network to
add some additional security but these
are the core components once you've
configured the vrf for that public
virtual interface if we now look inside
that route table inside the vrf we're
going to see all of those amazon public
IP addresses within those are the IP
addresses for the virtual private
gateway so the next step is to create a
VPN connection and again when you
download the configuration this is what
it's going to look like what you can do
here is say when I establish this VPN
connection establish it from within that
vrf use the routing that I have
available from that public virtual
interface to reach the VPN endpoints so
I'm showing you here the places that you
need to add in that additional
configuration for your reference that
you can use this perhaps after this
session to try out this configuration
basically though you're configuring the
key rings and the profile for the VPN
connection once you've configured those
two elements though you also have to
take the two tunnel interfaces
themselves and here it's really
important to configure those tunnels to
start within that vrf we don't need the
whole interface to be in there so
there's no configuration here to put the
interface itself in the vrf just the
start of the tunnels so when that's done
what we now have is the configuration of
two tunnels that have part of them
inside that public vrf and part of them
within the global routing table on the
router we bring up the bgp sessions
between these two and now if we have a
look at the route table on the main part
of the route of the global routing table
it's nice and clean all it has in it is
a route to my corporate network 192 168
51 in this example and it has my two
parts by to VPN connections in to AWS so
this is one way that you can build an
encrypted connection on top of direct
connect
so these are a few of the other sessions
that cover direct connect and VPNs
there's quite a few there as I say most
of them have already occurred this week
so you can catch them on YouTube after
the event hope the session has been
useful to you we'd really appreciate
your feedback because I shape this
session based on some of the feedback we
had last year and we're always looking
to improve the content so thank you very
much for your time got about 10 minutes
if anyone's got any questions